---
title: "[PAGODA] Deadly Climb"
# excerpt: 

categories: self_dev

date: 2021-07-09
last_modified_at: 2021-07-09
published : true
---

__Warm Up__
* Do you enjoy outdoor sports?
* What is the highest mountain you have ever climbed?

__Today’s Article__

May marked the start of the climbing season in the Himalayas, when conditions are optimal
for those attempting to conquer Mount Everest. But unfortunately, the mountain has already
claimed its first two victims of the year. A 41-year-old climber from Switzerland succumbed to
oxygen deprivation after successfully reaching the peak and starting his descent, and a 55-year-old
5 climber from the US was on the final leg of his ascent, but became exhausted and had to return to
camp, where he passed away.

It’s only in the past century that people have been trying to climb Everest. In July 1921, a
British team of explorers reached the mountain and climbed part of the way, reaching an altitude of
about 7,000 meters before being forced to turn back. A second attempt in 1922 got above 8,000
10 meters but ultimately failed as well. In 1924, explorers George Mallory and Andrew Irvine were
seen close to the peak before disappearing, but if they reached it, they did not live to tell the tale.
Mallory’s body was finally found in 1999; Irvine’s never was.

Undeterred, other mountaineers kept trying. In 1953, Tenzing Norgay of Nepal and Sir
Edmund Hillary of New Zealand made it to the top and survived. In the years that have followed,
15 4,000 have summited Everest. But hundreds have also died. Once a climber gets above 8,000
meters, they are in the “death zone,” where oxygen is depleted more quickly than it can be
absorbed. Bottled oxygen allows climbers to survive, but the tanks are heavy and the quantity that
can be brought along is limited. Death from exhaustion and exposure (freezing to death) are real
possibilities as well: if you become too weak to go on, you cannot count on others to rescue you.
20 But it’s the treacherous terrain that claims the most lives, due to falls and avalanches.

All of these hazards are well-known, and summiting Everest no longer brings fame and
fortune (quite the opposite on the latter—it’s quite an expensive undertaking), but climbers are
still drawn to the mountain. The reasons for this are hard for some to understand. High altitude
climbing does not provide the same high-speed thrills as other extreme sports such as big-wave
25 surfing or BASE jumping. On the contrary, the great majority of time spent trekking up a mountain
can only be described as monotonous. And even for the best-prepared climbers, crushing fatigue
and bitter cold are just part of the deal.

Despite all of this, most who succeed at the climb wouldn’t trade the experience for the
world. Some say that it’s the feeling of being done with the ordeal, exhausted but triumphant.
30 Others say it’s some combination of the magnitude of the challenge and its brutal simplicity: you
either force yourself to keep moving, or you die, period. Contrasted with our day-to-day life, where
there are few do-or-die situations but an endless variety of minor problems to sort out, Everest has
its appeal. For many, the allure of climbing Everest also has something to do with bragging rights.

One climber went so far as to say that climbing Everest is easy—a real challenge would be to climb
35 it and not tell anybody about it. So, although the deaths are tragic, it is very likely that Everest will
continue to draw aspiring mountaineers from around the world.
Copyright 2021 by Pagoda Academy, Inc.

__Vocabulary__

Match each word with the appropriate definition.
1. succumb (v.) a. parachuting from low places such as towers or
bridges
2. live to tell the tale (idiom) b. an aspect that must be accepted
3. summit (v.) c. cherish; value highly
4. undertaking (n.) d. make it to the top of a mountain
5. BASE jumping (n.) e. opportunity to show off
6. trek (v.) f. survive a dangerous situation
7. part of the deal (idiom) g. significance; enormity
8. wouldn’t trade
[something] for the world
(idiom)
h. project; endeavor
9. magnitude (n.) i. lose one’s ability to resist; be overcome
10. bragging rights (n.) j. make a hard journey (usually on foot)

__Discussion__
1. In which countries are the Himalayas located? What are these countries known for
other than mountains?
2. If you had a chance to visit one Himalayan country, where would you go and what
would you do there?
3. Would you ever be willing to risk your life for a thrilling experience? If so, explain.
4. What would scare you most about climbing Mount Everest?
5. If you had to choose between big-wave surfing, BASE jumping, and climbing Mount
Everest, which would you pick and why?
6. Before 1921, as far as we know, nobody had ever climbed Mount Everest. Some people
might suggest that humanity should have just left the mountain alone. What do you
think of this idea?
7. Have you done something just for bragging rights? Explain.
8. Expanding on question #7, how has social media affected people’s desire for bragging
rights?
9. The article’s last paragraph lists several other motivations for climbing Mount Everest.
Which of these motivations do you think is the strongest and why?

__Key Expression__

